My linux journey <(needs a better title)>
 -Kris Tomplait 
    -Archivists Endeavors
    
At the risk of sounding cliche, the statement "linux changed my life" isnt said lightly. It has changed not only the course of my career but also changed the way I think and taught me quite a few things about myself.
I never made it through high school.. In fact until recently I havent been to school since I was 15.... I'm 31 now. But a few years back while working at an Iron foundry I met someone who was an adocate of open sourse software and linux.. He ran a non-profit on the side which taught Linux. He used slackware which is what I started my with at first. He even gave me a laptop with slackware linux on it.
With alot of paitence, and when I say alot I mean more then most people have the sanity for, this man did his best to teach me the terminal, bash scripting, from the simple to the advance, he tried his best. I wouldn't say im a bad student.. just a student with a thicker skull that 8 out of 10 times has to just learn things the hard way.
So I wouldnt sudggest slackware being the first distro to start with. But starting with it was like sink or swim rather then starting at the shallow end and learning slow, it was more like being tossed into the deep-end. but every sunday I went to the non-profit and learned what I could and practiced throughout the week.
Now at this time it had been about 2 years since I started using linux, My wife was pregnant, and I was working far more then I was home or slept. At 2 am I got a call, it was my wife and she said that I needed to come home.. there was a fire, and we lost everything. Moving from one hotel to the next till finally back into our old home took almost a year and a half. But finnally managed. The insurance covered the laptop, but I hadnt used linux or a computer throughout the whole proccess of Insurance and moving. We lost everything to have to rebuild it again.
Some of the items from the fire made it back, among those items was a very melted and warped laptop that used to be the one that was for my learning. I put it away out of sentiment not willing to toss it into the trash. 
Later that year I bought a Gaming PC..got it on a deal, but it was powerful. had a problem with speed, 8 gigs of RAM, a AMD and Ryzon, and 256G SSD (solid state drive).. thing was quick, Real pretty as my wife would say because of its colors and the case was Tempered Glass. Came with windows 10 and I started my computer science journey but this time alone without a teacher. I still kept in touch with him but I lived in a diffrent city working now at a copper wireing factory.
Then the infamous "windows update" happend. It wouldnt load past the login screen and the Microsoft Windows insignia with an Infinate load screen.
So I called my old teacher, and we came to a deal. I traded him a pc that was build out of salvage for him to put a 1T hard drive he had had into the gaming PC and re-install windows. The 1T HDD he installed slackware Linux and on the 256SSD he installed windows 10 for gaming. So I started my Linux journey once more. 
But life has a funny way of kicking you at the worst moments. I was working 12 shifts, everyday at the factory. Not seeing my son nor being with my family other then to sleep, all I did was work, and one day Somthing inside me broke, I could not be for a moment longer a expendable and replaceable industrial worker that works all the time and never is with his family. After quiting I didnt know what to do.
I went to visit my old friend again at his Non-Profit. Talked for a while and it was withing that conversation turning twords the subject of non-profits, buisnesses, how one starts one ect. ect.
A week later I started working for my-self. I started out sub-contracting as a laborer for a licened carpenter, who taught me much about construction then simple framing, and the money paid well as it was task based rather then hourly so I had more time at home. I practiced more with linux discovering I had a knack for finding Information. Because the hardest part of teaching yourself is finding out what to teach yourself, and when it comes to computers and IT, your a drop, inside a sea of information and knowledge, and once it truly dawned on me the kind of control, customization, and freedom for that matter, the true power of the developers choice OS and the raw potential that my friend called the hackers playground -AKA linux, microsofts windows only ever was booted out of necesity, to only exits inside a VM..reduced to nothing more then a file. 
I started out just helping people with there computers.. as linux could view the windows FS, and also was usefull in retrieveing information from damaged PCs. Among many of the tasks was the first official one of the business. Christmas was approaching, and for christmas I gave flashdrives out to my family. On them was the last 8 years worth of pictures, videos, of family events and me and the wifes wedding. It had deceased relitives, music and videos, family get togethers that havent been remebered..all from many sources but the main one was that burnt laptop that I backed up every broken phone, camera, movies, videos... everything beacause the only thing that was salvageable was its storage and the fire took many photos. I was able to get every one of them plus some that I didnt know I had back, and made copies to give to family and friends.
Now fast forwarding to recently. Sometimes life again comes at you, and I struggled through a divorce. As deppresion kicked in I threw-myself both into the Construction and Remodeling while also teaching myself Linux and opensource software. I turned to filling my time with work and learning computers and IT. I stubbled into ivy-tech to see how much a compTIA linux cert was.
Turns out they said the state would cover the first year and through some of the grants and aid offered through both federal and local, not only would I get a degree, but also pay very little for it... I haven't been to school since I was 15, I only had experience from the military and nearly a decade of industrial and if it wasn't for the guy, who had a non-profit that advocats and teaches linux. I wouldn't have ever started this journey. I'm now a student, persuing a Assosiates of Science degree in Cybersecurity and Information assurance. I run a small buisness, I help people with lower-incomes re-use older-computers, fix the ones they have and provide some sometimes unorthodox solutions to networking and IT. 
My business name is Archivists Endeavors. Archivists are the caretakers of Information and Knowladge, the Endeavors are the acts, experiences, steps taken and tasks completed to aquire that information...
       ......and if it wasn't for my friend and Linux, my life would have been a completly diffrent tale. 

                         -Kris Tomplait
                           -Archivists Endeavors
                           
                         
